---
layout: post
title: The Lost Society
date: 2016-07-20 09:50:06 UTC
permalink: /the-lost-society
---
   For centuries we fought each other, killing billions of our own kind. We would fight over land, religion, or any petty difference imaginable. Early in our history the death tolls were not outrageous, maybe a few thousand of the population would be killed every year. However, as our technology advanced we perfected more efficient ways to kill each other, and causing irreparable damage to our world. These advances allowed for the ability to kill “enemies” thousands of miles away, without ever setting foot on their land. We became so effective at killing each other that wars were fought in a matter of hours. Each war would be carefully calculated, focusing on decimating as much of the population at once. This advanced warfare went on for decades as the population slowly dwindled to a few million.

   This all came to an end with what we called the Last War. After decades of war and massive loss of life, the population of the world became concentrated around three sectors of the planet which were Alpha, Beta, and Theta. The population in each sector was concentrated in small cities which led to poor living conditions and high crime rates.

   Touted as one of the greatest achievements during the Last War, the invention of the Global Protection Grid, or GPG, was meant as a global deterrent to ensure that no one sector would ever attempt to attack another sector. The grid consisted of a series of watch stations placed in each sector that listened for detonation shock waves, if found it would launch every fusion missile the sectors had at their disposal at the remaining sectors. The hope was that this mutually assured destruction would help protect the last remnants of our population.

   At some point, it is unclear when even after a century of debate and research, a fusion missile was launched from the Theta sector towards the Alpha sector. The moment it touched down in the heart of the Alpha sector it wiped out all life in the city and surrounding areas. The GPG centers around the world lit up and started to calculate launch vectors for the remaining fusion missiles. The population of the world dropped to about 350,000 people within a matter of a few hours. Every piece of culture or society we had created was wiped cleaned and we were left with almost nothing. We had successfully de-evolved ourselves back into the caves that we had fought a lifetime to escape.

   It wasn’t the end though, the after math of the Last War led to the time that would later be called the Rebirth Era. We started over and tried to take our savage past and forge a new world with the attempt to learn from our past. We formed a global society rather than small city-states which allowed us to focus on a common goal, and to pool our limited resources together. Once organized, all the remaining people of the world came together on one of the last landmasses that was fertile and livable.

   As we all traveled to our new home we used the stars above us to guide us, like how our ancestors had so many centuries ago. Every person on the planet looked up to the stars and hoped that there was something, or someone, out there. Once we all arrived we setup a city and created a shared goal to explore the universe, find any life that might exist, and share our history in hopes that we could prevent others from falling into our bloody footprints. With all of our resources focused on this common goal we started to advance as a society faster than we ever expected.

   We left behind in the Last War, our advancements in weapons and technology that would harm ourselves or others. All of our focus was on the exploration of our universe, and within a few short decades we had perfected long distance space travel. While we weren’t able to explore other solar systems or galaxies yet, this discover pushed our entire society forward into a golden age of discover. We were no longer looking up into the sky wishing we were there, we were finally there.

   Our initial exploration was small and focused on our own solar system, something we had been observing for centuries. Unfortunately, we never found intelligent life, or any life for that matter, which caused our society to slowly loose faith in our common goal. After a few failed discovers, the population became restless and started to become violent, some feared we would revert to our savage past. Small riots would break out in the inner city and while no one ever died, it showed that even with our advancements and new shared goal we were right on the edge of repeating our past mistakes. For over a decade this unrest continued until the day that we discovered interstellar travel.

   Once perfected we created a single ship, The Last Hope, and sent a small team of six adventurers into the cosmos on a path to the closets star. The moment the ship came into proximity of the solar system it started to pick up signals from a single planet in the solar system, this would become the first intelligent life we would encounter and would change the course of our future forever.

   That moment was why I joined the Explorers Agency and started to explore our universe, in the hope that one day I would be the first person to contact a new life form. I became part of a fleet of over six hundred ships that went off in every direction from our home planet, with the one goal of finding any and all life in our universe. 

   Which is what I am doing right now, making the final approach with my expedition crew onto a new planet that we had never explored before. We were brought to this planet after we picked up a faint repeating signal coming from the northerner hemisphere of the planet.

***
   As our ship slowly weaved in and out of the planet’s atmosphere we could see from above a lush environment filling our view screen in the ship. We could make out dessert areas, jungle areas, and massive areas filled with blue water. Our pilot decided to land near the signal in what appeared to be a large city.

   When we landed in our scouting ship, large buildings surrounded us as they reached up into the sky and looked as if they went on forever. While they seemed to be built with metal and glass, the surrounding nature of brilliant green and brown vines had weaved themselves into the structures becoming one and the same with them. Many of the glass panels that covered the outside of the buildings had been broken through by the vines as they grew and reached for the sunlight that was outside.

   “Captain!” I heard from the pilot behind me. “We are going to drop everyone off here, it appears the signal is starting to weaken. We will continue on towards the signal and hopefully get to it before it disappears.”

   “Sounds like a plan. We will call if we find something here," I responded as I walked out the exit ramp of the ship and grabbed my exploration bag hanging on the left side of the door frame.

   It was a brown leather satchel that had been passed down from my grandfather to me on the day I was accepted to the Adventurers Agency. My grandfather was one of the first interstellar adventurer and was able to visit over a hundred planets in his career. Every step of the way this bag was at his side and was able to witness every discover he made. The bag had actually been passed down from his grandfather who had created the bag. The leather that the bag was made of came from one of the seats at the Theta sector launch site, the one that had launched the first missile starting the chain reaction that almost eradicated everyone on our world.

   My great grandfather was part of the reclamation teams that would go to the launch sites and strip them for any resources that would be useful for rebuilding our society. Unlike launch sites in other sectors, the Theta sector site was the only one with chairs at the launch command station. When my great grandfather found the chairs to be made from the last natural leather in existence, he carefully removed the leather from the chair and brought it back home with him. Since our new society had no use for natural leather, and the selling of it was banned through the city, my grandfather decided to create a satchel bag out of it. After he finished it he gave it to his son, the first in our family to become an adventurer and step foot on another planet. On the day he gave it to his son he told him to carry it with him everywhere, to show the past of everything we have accomplished despite how hard our ancestors tried to end it all.

***
   As we started to climb over the wild grown vines and trees that had fallen over time, my second in command, Sarah White, started to read back some of the basic environmental information she had found.

   “It appears that their atmosphere isn’t to different than our own back home. However, there seems to be large traces of CO2 still in the air.”

   “Must not be that large if the ship green lit us to come down here, if there were any environmental issues the ship would have told us to explore the planet from orbit," I responded.

   “No, but it seems that in the past the amount of CO2 was incredibly high, might have been the cause of the extinction of this civilization," she responded writing it down in her notebook.

   While we had incredibly advanced technology, Sarah refused to take her initial findings down with a piece of technology. She always insisted on writing them down in a small black book she had bound herself during our time traveling between solar systems.

   “Captain, it appears that a significant building is up ahead," our scout, Thomas Miller, said as he climbed down from on of the large trees that had fallen in our way.

   We all slowly climbed back up the tree and saw a long building that was unlike any of the other buildings in the city. This one seemed to have been made of a pure white material and was surrounded by pillars around the outside terrace. The top of the building’s roof came together to form a triangle and on the outside face were small sculptures of what seemed to be people.

   “Ok, that is our destination, Thomas run up ahead and try to find a clear path. Jeffery, follow him and if you come across anything that is blocking our path try and remove it. Be careful though, we don’t know if these vines are sentient or not. Don’t want another experience like we had back on LRV98," I joked as  Jeffery ran up and high five Thomas.

***
   After about a half hour Thomas and Jeffery returned and gave us the thumbs up to continue to the structure we saw earlier. We all slowly grouped back together and continued on the path Thomas and Jeffery cleared out for us. As we cleared all of the wild nature we came to what looked like a modern city we had seen countless times on other worlds.

   When we reached the structure we were shocked at how intricate the architecture was for every column and stair. Leading up to the main entrance were pure white stairs that had characters written on the side. I had never seen this language before, and the glasses we wore that were suppose to translate any language our society had come across wasn’t working either.

   “Sarah, what is wrong with our glasses?” I asked

   “I don’t know sir. Let me try and do an override update to them. I’ve read in recent articles that the glasses were starting to struggle with all of the languages they have in their memory bank," She replied as she pulled her glasses off and pointed them directly at one of the stairs. After a few seconds I heard a beep and all of our glasses light up green and blinked “Update”.

   “Check now," Sarah said.

   When I looked down the characters covering the stairs were slowly replaced with our familiar language. It appeared that each stair was a series of numbers that looked very similar to four digit years. Unfortunately, the glasses started to flicker on and off and then went completely clear.

   “What happened? It seemed like it was working Sarah.”

   “I started to see error messages appear on my glasses before it crashed. It appears that there wasn’t enough information for them to go off of to fully decode the language.“

   “If we can find a large enough source of their language, do you think the glasses will be able to fully decode it?” I asked.

   “They should be able to, although I’ve never seen or read about anything that would explain what the glasses are doing.”

   We continued up the stairs and to the main entrance of the structure. The doors in front of us had been slowly broken away from by vines, trying to creep their way into the structure. Thomas and Jefferey gave one of the doors a solid push and it broke free, swinging open for all of us to enter.

   While the outside was covered with intricate details, the inside was surprising bare. There was nothing in front of us except black rectangles that littered the walls. Some of the rectangles had fallen down and cracked open when they crashed on to the solid ground. I bent down to one of the rectangles that had fallen to the right of us and looked inside to try and get a better understanding of what they were.

   Inside there was nothing except a green board with what looked like a million little pieces of silver parts that had broken free when the rectangle crashed on the ground. As I stood up Sarah had walked to another rectangle that had fallen on the floor and picked it up.

   “Sarah any idea? I don’t think I’ve ever seen anything like this," I asked.

   “It appears that this structure is very similar to other structures we have come across in the past. My initial thought is that it was a museum of some sort, but unlike any museum we have ever seen. There is no art or written text anywhere which is somewhat alarming. We might not be able to gather much information about this society if this is all we can find in their equivalent of a museum.”

   While we have been to worlds before and seen civilizations be completely destroyed and there were almost no traces of life, with a little bit of deep sonar digging we were able to find a trace of the culture that once existed. Here though there was nothing, no large written text or art to give us an idea of what this culture was. My thoughts were interrupted when our comms came to life and I heard our pilot start to speak.

   “Captain, we found the signal. We will come and pick the team up first, everyone will want to see this.”

***
   Once the scout ship landed we all got in and flew towards the signal we had first received. As we flew over more cities a common theme of nature running wild became very apparent. We have seen worlds where this has happened, but usually we find some trace of their culture. Unfortunately, the museum wasn’t a great source and hopefully this signal will shed more light on who these people were.

   We eventually came to the source of the signal, a small brown building that was surrounded by large spindly towers with massive domes on the tops of them. Landing in an open area just outside of the structure, we all got out of the ship and started towards what looked like the front entrance. On the door was a sign that was red and had a large block of white characters on it.

   “Sarah, why don’t you try and update with this sign? Seems to have a larger selection of their language than the stairs," I said.

   Sarah pulled her glasses off and held them up to the red sign and attempted to do another update. After a few seconds our glasses light up green again and “Updated” flashed in front of our eyes. We all stared at the sign and eventually it transformed into the language we all knew, and stayed translated. On the sign read:

<center>
   <br>
WARNING!<br>
THIS FACILITY IS FOR AUTHORIZED PERSONAL ONLY.
<br>
<br>
</center>

   “Doesn’t seem like we have much of a choice. We have to report on something about this world. Lets head in," I said grabbing the door handle and giving it a pull.

   Like the outside of the building, the inside did not have anything of any importance to it. The walls were bare, not even any black rectangles covered the walls, and there was only two objects in the room. On the left wall was an all metal console that had dials and lights covering the outside. In front of the console was a small leather chair.

   I walked up to the console and ran my hand across the cold metal outside, touching the dials and lights that covered the surface. I eventually came to the right bottom corner where a small white piece of paper had been hanging out of a black slit. I reached down and started to tear the paper free as carefully as I could. When it released I held it up to my glasses and saw the characters switch to my own language.

<center>
   <br>
Detonating EMP in 3…<br>2…<br>1…<br>EMP Detonated
<br>
<br>
</center>



   After reading it I passed the piece of paper to Sarah who read it and passed it along to the team. We all stood there trying to comprehend what had happened on this world when Sarah broke the silence gave her opinion.

   “We have come across this EMP acronym before Captain. On LR9130, there world had references to an Electro Magnetic Pulse that had destroyed their technology and caused them to revert to their pre-modernized culture. Unfortunately for them though they were unable to survive without their technology and eventually turned against one another which lead to their extinction.”

   “It appears that might be the best explanation of what happened. Let’s stay here a few days and try to find any information that might back up that theory.”

   As everyone turned and left the building, I stayed behind and ran my hand on the top of the leather chair. After being left alone for an incredible time, the leather had very few tears or cracks. I moved to sit in it when Sarah came back into the room.

   “Captain, what is it?” Sarah asked.

   I stood in front of the chair staring at it before I finally spoke.

   “Sorry, its nothing just seems oddly familiar here.”

***
   We stayed in orbit around the planet for almost a week trying to find any clues or information about the civilization that lived there. After a few exploratory trips, we found massive buildings that were filled with black towers, which were almost our height, filled with more of those green boards. Almost everywhere we explored, all we found were rectangles with green boards in them. The only objects we came across with their language written on were signs that instructed people to not enter a building.

   Sarah and I attempted to find traces of bones or remains of the people who 
inhabited this world, but came up empty handed. Sarah had various samples of the soil tested from around the planet and it appeared that much of the soil had very acidic levels to it, which might explain why their were no remains from the people who once lived here.

   As we left the planet I had a small sense of failure that we were unable to discover anything about this lost civilization. It appeared to me that they had put so much effort into those green boards that they had forgotten to use other means that held up better to time which could record their history and culture. The ship slowly left the orbit of LR9881 I could see the local star slowly rise over the third planet in the solar system. From above it resembled a perfect marble surrounded by the endless stars of the universe, waiting to be discovered by another civilization in the future attempting to understand who they were.